#labels Featured
#a readme of rocks-solid

= Introduction =

Rocks-Solid is a set of tools that enhance the use of [http://www.rocksclusters.org ROCKS cluster]. Most of the tools intent to help ROCKS cluster administrator.

Brief of features are

  * Energy consumption optimizer base on queue usage, by power on/off nodes dynamically.
  * IPMI management tools
  * Node power management
  * Node status checker & shutdown tools
  * Miscellaneous tools
   * Command to terminate all orphaned job in compute nodes
   * Terminate all user processes
   * Clean up unused IPCS

Current release support only ROCKS 4.x, tested heavily only on ROCKS 4.2.1 and ROCKS 4.1. It should also works on ROCKS 4.3.

= Installation = 
Rocks-solid comes in RPM form, which is the common package management for ROCKS. To instal Rocks-solid.
  # Download all dependencies and install them.
   # <download all foundation** RPMs here>
   # `rpm -Uvh foundation-**.rpm`
  # Install Rocks-solid
   # <download rocks-solid RPM>
   # `rpm -Uvh rocks-solid**.rpm`
  # Install rocks-solid on all compute nodes. Please follow the step [http://www.rocksclusters.org/rocks-documentation/4.3/customization-adding-packages.html here]. (It is recommended to install all dependencies, although it is not needed for now.) 
  # create configuration file /etc/rocks-solid.conf. Please follow example [http://code.google.com/p/rocks-solid/wiki/Configuration here]
  # If you plan to run node-envcheck, please distribute /etc/rocks-solid.conf to all compute nodes. This can be done using [http://www.rocksclusters.org/rocks-documentation/4.3/service-411.html ROCKS 411 services].
  # cluster-powersave need to operate by crond. So please put an entry in /etc/cron.d/powersave like this to instruct cluster-powersave to run every 5 minutes.
{{{
*/5 * * * *     root     /opt/rocks/bin/cluster-powersave >& /dev/null
}}}
  # node-envcheck need to operate by crond. So please put an entry in /etc/cron.d/envcheck like this to instruct node-envcheck to run every 5 minutes.
{{{
*/5 * * * *     root     /opt/rocks/bin/node-envcheck >& /dev/null
}}}

= Command manual =
Most 'cluster-' command here has the same syntax as cluster-fork. You can use '--nodes compute-0-%d:1-15' form

  * *cluster-powersave* - this command examine the current job queued in cluster. More information about how it choose the node can be found [http://code.google.com/p/rocks-solid/wiki/PowerSaveAlgorithm here]
   * Example: cluster-powersave -d -v (run powersave in verbose and dry-run mode)
  * *cluster-power* - power on/off and check status of each compute nodes.
   * Example: cluster-power on (power on nodes)
   * Example: cluster-power --nodes compute-1-%d:0-39 status (check for power status of nodes)
  * *cluster-ipmi* - issue IPMI command to compute nodes
   * Example: cluster-ipmi sdr type temperature (issue "sdr type temperature" on all compute-nodes)
  * *cluster-freehost* - report all currently free hosts (no slot used)
  * *cluster-clean-ps* - terminate all orphaned processes in compute nodes which are. 
   * not owned by sge_sphered (not started by SGE)
   * not owned by SSHD (not started by MPICH)